VARI OS – Member 1 Work Document
AI/ML & Predictive Risk Engine

1. Role Overview
Member 1 owns the predictive intelligence layer of VARI OS. The responsibility is to convert current zone conditions into measurable near-future risk predictions, primarily for crowd congestion and heat/environmental risk.
2. Core Question
“What is likely to go wrong in the next 30–60 minutes, and how confident is the system?”
3. Inputs
Crowd count / density by zone
Temperature
Humidity
Water availability
Time of day
Zone identifier and derived features
Historical/synthetic risk labels
4. Synthetic Data Generator
Because real operational Wari datasets are not available for the hackathon, create a clearly labelled synthetic historical dataset containing several thousand records. The generator should create realistic relationships—for example, higher crowd + higher temperature + lower water availability should increase risk probability.
Use Python + NumPy/Pandas
Fix a random seed for reproducibility
Create train/validation/test splits
Document that synthetic coefficients are illustrative
Never hardcode final accuracy or confidence values
5. Model Development
Start with Logistic Regression as a baseline and compare it with XGBoost or another suitable scikit-learn-compatible classifier. The final model should be selected based on validation performance and interpretability, not simply because it is more complex.
Train model on training data only
Evaluate on held-out test data
Save the trained model with joblib
Expose predict_proba() for risk probability
Record model version and feature list
6. Outputs
Zone ID
Risk probability
Risk level: Low / Medium / High / Critical
Prediction horizon: 30 or 60 minutes
Model probability/confidence source
Optional feature contribution/explanation
7. Evaluation
The project must report genuine test-set metrics. Recommended metrics are Precision, Recall, F1-score and ROC-AUC; accuracy may also be shown when appropriate. Do not put a metric into the PPT until it has been produced by the actual trained model.
8. API Contract
Member 1 should provide prediction results to the backend in a language-independent JSON structure.
{   "zone_id": "Z6",   "risk_probability": 0.78,   "risk_level": "high",   "horizon_minutes": 30 }
9. Integration With Other Members
Member 2 consumes risk scores to allocate resources.
Member 3 displays risk values on the Digital Twin and uses them in simulation.
Member 4 displays the prediction and translates its labels into English/Marathi UI text.
10. What This Member Must NOT Claim
Do not claim real Wari prediction accuracy from synthetic data.
Do not claim real CCTV crowd detection.
Do not hardcode a 78% risk value.
Do not describe the model as a full flood/hydrodynamic simulator.
11. Final Deliverables
Synthetic dataset generator
Training script
Saved trained model
Evaluation report
Prediction module/API integration
Feature documentation
Actual test metrics for the final presentation
